1) Motivation: The use of social media platforms grows exponentially every day in terms of people posting content and people viewing the content. YouTube services have a significant impact on modern-day society. There has been a significant increase in the number of people who choose YouTube as a professional. As a result, there is a need for creators to understand what kind of videos their audience would prefer. In this project we understand whether a video posted on YouTube would perform well in terms of like, comments and views as these three factors determine how popular a video would become. This would intern help the creators understand their audiences in a better way. This project implements various analysis methods that can help us understand the data and enable us to decide what model would be best suited. We also make use of two models; linear regression and multioutput regressor, which will be further discussed in this paper. Finally, we evaluate the two models and discuss more on their outcomes.

2) Prior work: YouTube popularity prediction by a Kaggle user whose name is not known. In the above-mentioned reference the project is built using random forest and linear regression. Also, the likes are predicted using views and comments, views are calculated using likes and comments and comments using views and likes. In my project I have used linear regression to predict likes using views and comments and R2 score as metric of measure. Additionally, after my research I got to know about multioutput regression and have implemented the same in my project.

3) Analysis:
Dataset
To begin with, the dataset has been collected from a data collector on Kaggle, who uses YouTube API to collect the data. The dataset contains information on videos such as title, category, channel name, views, tags, likes, dislike, count, description. The data set has 40949 rows and 16 columns. We also use another dataset named category details that has details of the various categories that are mentioned in the former dataset. We use this dataset for better analysis.
Exploratory data analysis
We begin by exploring our YouTube data set. Our dataset has 16 columns and 40949 rows. We discovered that there is a feature called category id and no name. Hence for better understanding we use the details from category.csv file and get the names of the categories using category id. Then we check for the null values in the dataset. We see that around 1.39 % of the video descriptions have null values. We then add three new columns that have the length of video descriptions, title, and number hashtags. Since we already have the information about description title and hashtags, we drop these columns. We also find on what day the videos were published using the date one which the videos were published. We then find the number of views, likes and dislikes each category has received, number of videos in each category, views received by videos that were released on a particular day of the week and plot a graph
category vs views category vs likes category vs dislikes

We infer from the charts that the music category receives the highest number of views, likes and dislikes. The highest number of videos are released in the music category.
We then see how our data is distributed We then change the Boolean values present in our columns to integer type so that our model performs better. Finally we plot the correlation matrix and check how our columns are related and then drop the unrelated columns.


4) Model Building:
As suggested earlier, I use linear regression as my model instead of decision tree as after because after initial analysis linear regression seemed to be a better choice. Linear regression is a model that tries to find the relationship between two variables by fitting a linear equation to observed data. One variable is an independent variable, and the other is a dependent variable. From our correlation matrix we see that views, likes and comments are highly corelated. Hence, we build our linear regression model to predict the likes using comments and views. We divide our dataset into 70% training and 30% testing data. Our feature values set contains all the features and class attribute is y the number of likes. We then apply standard scalar transformation to our dataset for better performance. We then build our model and test it. Since in our previous model we use views and comments to predict our likes, before a video is published, we don’t have any of these resources, to predict all three views, comments and likes, we use a multi output regressor which is able to predict more than one target values. This regressor takes linear regression as the base model and predicts three outputs. We split our data into 70% training and 30 % testing. We then apply standard scalar transformation to our dataset for better performance. Our feature values set contains all the features and class attribute is y the number of likes, views, and comments a video receives. We use linear regression model as the base model for our multi output regressor.

5) Results and findings:
Linear regression model:
Our linear regression model has a training score of 0.83.We test our model and use R2 score as a metric of evaluation. R2 score is a statistical measure that determines how well the model has been fitted. R2 score of 1 show that the model is best fitted. So, a closer value to 1 the better fitted
the model is. R-square is a comparison of the residual sum of squares (SSres) with the total sum of squares (SStot).
R2 score = 1- SSres / SStot
We get a score of 0.9. this is because according to our correlation. This is because according to our correlation matrix views and likes are highly corelated with a correlation of 0.85 and comment count and likes to have a correlation of 0.8 which shows that these values are highly correlated to each other giving us a model with a R2 score of 1.0.
Multioutput regression model. Multioutput regression are regression problems that involve predicting two or more numerical values given an input example. Our multi regression model has a score of 0.96. We test our model using the testing data. We use r2 score to predict the values of likes, views and comments. Views has an R2 score of 1.0, likes of 0.89 and comments of 1.0.

6) Conclusion: In this project we apply the various data preprocessing steps to analyze and clean the data. We visualize the data using various charts to understand our data well. Then we implement two models linear regression and multi output regression using linear regressor, and check for the accuracy using R2 score. This project has helped me get a practical approach to the theoretical learnings from this class.